1. roles in existing AOPLs; description and comparison.
2. traits in mainstream programing languages. comparison with roles.
3. roles in sociology -- organisational theory and role theory. Comparison with roles in AOPL.
4.roles in frameworks.

AOPLs:

  AGENT0
  PLACA
  SPLAW
  SLABSp
  Jason
  3APL, 2APL
  GOAL

  MetateM
  J-Moise+
  Normative multi-agent programming language

Frameworks:
  Jade
  Brain
  S-Moise+
  MadKit

Methodologies:
  GAIA
  Tropos
  OMNI

Articles to read:

  --
  MAS
  Desiderata for agent oriented programming languages -- Huguet
  An overview of agent oriented programming -- Shoham
  A survey of agent oriented methodologies -- Iglesias
  Agent oriented software engineering: The state of the art -- Woolridge
  A survey of Programming languages and platforms for multi-agent systems -- Bordini
  An overview of MAS engineering methodology -- Wood
  --
  ROLES in MAS
o Modeling organizations in MAS: a comparison of models -- Continho (13)
  BRAIN: A framework for flexible role-based interactions in MAS -- Cabri
  Enacting and Deacting roles in agent programming -- Dastani
  Role assignment in open agent societies -- Dastani
  Role-modelling for agent system analysis, design and implementation -- Kendal
  Organisation models and behavioural requirements specificcation for MAS -- Ferber
v Organisational abstractions for the analysis and design of multi-agent systems-- Zambonelli
v From agents to organizations -- Ferber
  A methodology for agent oriented analysis and design -- Wooldridge
  SODA: societies and infrastructure.. -- Omicini 
  Learning organizational roles in heterogeneous multi-agent systems -- Prasad (42)
v How to program organizations and roles in the JADE framework -- Baldoni
  --
  ROLES in online communities
  A conceptual and operational definition of social role in online community -- Gleave
  Visualizing the signatures of social roles in online discussion groups 

Books:

  Agent oriented programming -- Huntbach
  An introduction to MultiAgent Systems -- Wooldridge
  Advance in social network analysis: research in the social and behavioural sciences
